# shami_rs

`shami_rs` is a pure rust implementation of Shamir's Secret Sharing. It turns a secret into several shares and with the possession of some or all of these the secret can be restored.

## Features

- Base "textbook" implementation of Shamir's Secret Sharing.
- XChaCha20-Poly1305 AEAD wrapper, that encrypts the secret before shares are created.
- BIP mnemonic wrapper that results in shorter shares when the secret is a BIP mnemonic.
- Optional padding so that shares are a multiple of 8 bytes.
- No predetermined encoding (Base64 recommended)
- **Experimental** - Up to 2 predefined shares before creating the rest of the shares.

# Installation

Add this to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
shami_rs = { git = "https://github.com/euandeas/shami_rs" }
```

Or this if you have the source code locally:
```toml
[dependencies]
shami_rs = { path = "../shami_rs" }
```

# Usage

## Base

```Rust
use shami_rs::base;

fn main() {
    let msg = "Hello World!";
    
    let shares = match build_shares(msg.as_bytes(), 3, 5, false) {
        Ok(shares) => shares,
        Err(e) => panic!(),
    };
    
    let secret = match rebuild_secret(shares){
        Ok(secret) => secret,
        Err(e) => panic!(),
    };
    
    assert_eq!(msg.as_bytes.to_vec(), secret);
}
```

## Experimental

shami_rs contains an `experimental` feature that unlocks the ability to create shares with up to 2 predefined shares. As stated this is experimental, so the security implications have not been fully investigated. Use at your own risk! 

If you are going to use this feature it is important to make sure that these shares are uniformly random and have high entropy.

```Rust
use shami_rs::base;

fn main() {
   let pre_shares = vec![b"share1".to_vec(), b"share2".to_vec()]; // These are very bad predefined shares!
   let msg = "Hello!";

   let shares = match build_shares_predefined(msg.as_bytes(), pre_shares, 3, 5, false) {
        Ok(shares) => shares,
        Err(e) => panic!(),
    };
    
    let secret = match rebuild_secret(shares){
        Ok(secret) => secret,
        Err(e) => panic!(),
    };
    
    assert_eq!(msg.as_bytes.to_vec(), secret);
}
```

# Technical Details

Fundamentally Shamir's secret sharing works by generating a polynomial (e.g. 33x³ + 8x² + 29x + 42). The lowest term (x = 0) is the secret, and all other terms are randomly generated. Shares are generated by picking points on the polynomial. Using interpolation we can then use k points to restore a k-degree polynomial. In this implementation, a polynomial is generated for each byte of the secret and then an x value is used for each byte to get each y point. This leaves us with a share of the format:

```{x}{y_0, y_1, y_2, ..., y_{n-1}} where n is the length of the secret```.

The x value for each share is randomly generated. The library uses a random number generator that retrieves randomness from the operating system (<a href="https://docs.rs/rand/latest/rand/rngs/struct.OsRng.html">OsRng</a>), for the randomization of the polynomial terms and x values.

This library includes an XChaCha20-Poly1305 wrapper that encrypts the secret, before then passing the key through the secret sharing scheme. This is done to prevent side-channel attacks and allows the integrity of the secret to be verified. This results in shares of the format:

```{x}{y_0, y_1, y_2, ..., y_{31}}{ciphertext}```

This library also includes a BIP-39 Mnemonic wrapper that passes the entropy of the mnemonic through the secret sharing, instead of the raw bytes of the string, resulting in much smaller shares.

When building shares they will be equal to `secret length + 1`, and this implementation can handle secret lengths of any size. If you don't want the shares to expose the secret length, the library allows for optional padding to be applied. This padding is designed to make the shares a multiple of 8 bytes.

Experimentally included is also the option to define 2 shares before the secret sharing algorithm is applied to the secret. These must be the same length as the shares that will be produced as described above. You should not use this feature unless you fully understand the possible security consequences. If they are uniform random elements of the underlying finite field then the perfect privacy of Shamir's secret sharing is preserved. If there is less entropy in the choice of shares then there is a corresponding drop in the entropy of the threshold. For a mix of different entropies, the entropy of the shared secret will vary for different compromises of unrelated shares.

# Security

I am not a cryptologist or security expert. This implementation of Shamir's Secret Sharing was designed and created by investigating other implementations and reading various resources on the topic. I believe that I have implemented it correctly based on the fact that it behaves as expected.

To the best of my knowledge, this program is reasonably safe to use but ultimately, it's your responsibility to use the software carefully. The source code is also readily available, so it can be reviewed and/or audited. If you discover any problems with the library, please let me know!

# License

Licensed under either of

 * Apache License, Version 2.0
   ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license
   ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

# Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

